US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has been meeting foreign ministers from
several Arab countries in the Jordanian
Capital Aman to discuss the war blinkin
reaffirmed us support for humanitarian
pauses in the fighting to ensure the
Palestinians in Gaza get humanitarian
aid but he also said that the US does
not back calls for a ceasefire Alan
Fischer has more from occupied East
Jerusalem it was a warm welcome for
Anthony blinkin and a man but the cold
reality is Arab countries see the US
position supporting Israel is
unsustainable the number of dead and
injured in Gaza is growing our by Bloody
hour the damage to homes hospitals and
Roads changing the face of a place no
one can escape Jordan's foreign minister
was blunt with his message the priority
now is to ending this War uh to saving
innocent lives to preventing further
destruction to restoring hope and to
stopping the very dangerous
dehumanization all lives matter to all
of us and uh Mr secretary dear Tony the
US has a leading role to play in these
efforts and on it and on all of us uh
fall the very heavy responsibility of
ending this catastrophe achieving the
just peace that is the right of uh every
Palestinian every Israeli mother child
father and that will ensure that none of
them or any other in the region will
ever have to live the horrors that this
vicious cycle of violence and war is
bringing Anthony blinkin repeated his
calls for humanitarian pauses in the
fighting a call rejected for now by
Israel and said there had to be a new
reality in Gaza in the
future none of us are under the illusion
that this will be easy particularly our
partners from Egypt and Jordan who have
for decades worked to facil facilitate a
real peace but it's precisely
now when the stakes are highest and even
when the Outlook seems
darkest that we have to
intensify our work to meet this moment
Anthony blinkin said it was important
Israel conducted the war within
International rules and laws too late
said Egypt's foreign
minister the unfortunate killing events
in
cannot be
justified we would not accept to go into
an
argument or accept the justification of
these practices as considered against
the or right to self-defense the
collective uh punishment Israel
targeting innocent civilians and
Facilities medical cilities paramedics
in addition to trying to for for
migration for Palestinians to re the
their
lands the US Secretary of State is now
on his way to Tura when news of his
visit spark
protests Anthony blinkin knew the sort
of reception he would get when he went
to a man he will leave knowing that the
Arabs are angry the United States is not
doing more to stop the killing in Gaza
Alan Fischer Al jaaz in occupied East
Jerusalem Maran Bashar is aljaz senior
political analyst Maran I I want to put
to you another line that uh stood out
for me of what Anthony blinkin said uh
and he the reason it stood out is
because he had the exact same line
yesterday when he was in Israel almost
word for word and this was about how he
feels when he sees Palestinian suffering
he says I look into the eyes of the
Palestinian children through my TV who
are being pulled out of the rubble and
my heartbreaks and when I look at their
eyes I see my own children right he had
almost word for word the same thing
today and yesterday so clearly this is
something that this is a little bit of a
setpiece for him something that's a
little bit rehearsed and a message that
he wants to put out there um the us
trying to move the needle a little bit
from what they the messaging they were
they had at the very beginning of this
war where their heart broke for Israel
and they said so publicly very
emotionally both the US president and
blinkin um and now they're saying oh by
the way we we are also we also feel for
Palestinian children so since this is an
official message now of us diplomacy my
question is just how do you think that
message is landing
yeah that's actually a very good
question because regardless of its
sincerity um I think uh in much of the
region there will be
skepticism um once and again American
officials are speaking out of both sides
of their mouths while on the one hand
they are expressing sorrow and empathy
for the killing of the Palestinians
Palestinian children but at the same
time they are giving green light they
are giving arms they are giv giving
technical knowhow to the Israeli Army to
carry out the slaughter Slaughter not
just killing because we're talking about
thousands of children killed women men
and so on so forth in Gaza the
decimation of Gaza is happening as we
speak so the idea that uh the American
uh officials want to tell the Arab world
that they have big heart is not
convincing much of the Arab Street much
of I think the International Community
looks uh with awe and shock at the
images coming out of Gaza this could no
longer be hidden it happens in plain
sight I don't want to be humorous uh
about this but I'm reminded of this
little um anecdote of a person taking a
little dog on a plane and asked by the
hostess to take it off and says I don't
have a dog and the dog starts barking
and the man says you you believe me or
you believe the
dog the dog is barking people are
getting killed it doesn't matter what
secretary blinkin says he can say and
express all the feelings that he might
have sincere or otherwise in the end of
the day The Barking is happening the
Cries From Gaza we can all hear it and
the cries of women the cries of Orphans
we heard from doctors today that there's
a new category in
collateral damage and that is surviving
children not knowing or knowing that
their parents do no longer exist so this
is a new category of children countless
children being pulled out of the ruins
of of of demolished buildings bombed by
Israel that they actually if they
survive they will be orphans this is the
reality in Gaza so the Secretary of
State could in all Earnest Express that
kind of a thing but the way it sounds
sounds like humbug humbug
humbug so in that case where do you
think I know it's hard to guess of
course but where do you think us
diplomacies goes next because blinkin
it's his fourth time uh in Israel
blinkin is calling repeatedly for short
pauses what you call humanitarian pauses
in the fighting Israel has said no um
he's calling for more Aid who knows
whether there will be more Aid going
into the strip but everybody says for
the moment what's going in there is
deeply insufficient uh he's calling for
Israel to respect international law
we've had countless guests analysts
lawyers Etc who tell us day after day
that we're probably looking at a number
of war crimes being committed in Gaza
it's hard to think that us diplomacy can
be
satisfied with the results or absence of
results that they're getting you you are
right um the problem is that from day
one since October 7 uh America looked at
the situation and decided that it's
going to uh marry into Israel and its
war crimes in Gaza basically President
Biden said and I'm using the words go
get Justice get Justice in other words
what Israel has been doing for the past
four weeks is not a war of self-defense
it's a war of self Revenge it's a war of
Revenge that's happening in Gaza it's
almost uh medieval even pre Biblical
times in the sense of what we heard from
prime minister Netanyahu when he said
this is like us with the amalik during
Biblical times yeah he framed everything
in in Israeli scripture and that that
very particular scripture that very
particular biblical
t uh uh
citation as it's been you know unraveled
in plain sight he's talking about Israel
killing men women children babies and
animals that's what that scripture said
but that's what all times right there
was no international law at the time
there was no first world war second
world war there was no Holocaust at that
time so the for the prime minister of
Israel to be basically boasting about
genocide killing men women and children
and babies and their animals and for the
American president and his
administration to marry into that to
embrace it to finance it to arm it to
help it to help execute it it's not it's
not easy to walk to walk back that kind
of a policy and hence four week into the
Israeli war crimes in
Gaza and despite the Arab
anger
everywhere the American Administration
continue to defend that position as
we've seen am now look what's
important secretary blinkin was
confronted by two foreign ministers who
are probably Jordan and Egypt Jordan and
Egypt probably the closest
the most friendlier foreign ministers in
the world certainly in the region to the
United States these two countries are
dependent on the United States they are
friendly to the United States they
cooperate they're even complicit with
the United States on a number of things
right so America will never find two
friendlier regimes and yet the two
foreign ministers told secretary blinkin
your line defense is I can't say
[__] it's humbug your line of
defense is not acceptable This Is War
this is not a self-defense it must stop
you secretary blinton need to call for a
ceasefire because we your friendly
neighbors your friendly Ally cannot
continue with the same as usual while
Palestinian women and children are being
slaughtered um I Duty bound and
obligated to apologize to our viewers
for one of the words that you used but
other than that
I'm not going to repeat it but uh but uh
but other than that uh to totally
understand the the analysis and and the
point Marwan bishar aljaz senior
political analyst thank you so much